
## Tutorial 2: Learn Pug and static binding; view via S3 HTTP server.

Simply said, _Pug_ is HTML without closing tags. Pug is a templating language,  more powerful than [Markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown). If you know Node/Express, you know Pug already.

If you know HTML, you also mostly know Pug: just don't close the tags. Pug also has variables (e.g. `#{key1}`) and imports (e.g. `include fragment.pug`).

This Pug:

    header
    body
       p Hello #{key1}


with `key1:World` (from `dat.yaml` in our case)
becomes this HTML:

    <header></header>
    <body>
       <p> Hello World</p>
    </body>

Pug is more concise, more powerful and easier to read and write than HTML. with Pug, you can also change the layout of your app; which is hard to do in Markdown. Because Markdown is useful for integrating larger bodies of text into HTML, mbake also supports `include:markdown-it mytext.md` in Pug.

We see Pug as a declarative 4th generation language (4GL). As we went from second generation assembly language (2GL) to higher level third generation (3GL, like C, C#, Java and JavaScript), our productivity jumped. Pug 4GL gets you to yet higher levels of productivity. 

### Steps

We assume that you have already installed mbake with `npm -g i mbake` as described [here](/#how-to-install-mbake).

1. Watch [Do you even Jade bro](http://youtube.com/watch?v=wzAWI9h3q18) as an intro about Pug (it used to be called Jade).

2. Generate a sample app with

        mbake -r

    and copy the contents of the generated `firo` folder to the bucket you mapped in [Tutorial 1](/t1/), e.g. `W:\wgehner-firo`.

3. In the Amazon S3 browser, go to the `/assets/css` folder, check all CSS files, select 'More - change metadata', and set 'Content-type' to `text/css`.

4. View the app in a browser. Use the S3 URL from [Tutorial 1](/t1/), e.g. <http://wgehner-firo.s3-website-us-west-1.amazonaws.com>. For production, you can mask the URL with a proper domain with HTTPS by using a CDN. You can find more detailed instructions [here](/cdn/).

5. In the project root, edit `dat.yaml` and change `'Oh hi!'` to `'Boho!'`, save, then `'mbake .'` and refresh the browser. Of course you could also change something in `index.pug`.

## About dat.yaml
mbake looks for `dat.yaml` in each folder and uses it for static binding. If you have `'bla: Oh hi'` in `dat.yaml`, you can use the value inside a `.pug` file at compile time via:

    #{bla}


That will put`'Oh hi'`, the value of `bla` at compile time, into the HTML. This is especially useful for any SEO items that can be repetitive in the HTML source.

__Summary__: In this tutorial, you learnt about Pug and static data binding. In the [next tutorial](/t3/), we cover _dynamic data binding_.

## Default SCSS Theme Framework

The default SCSS theme framework used in most examples is [Spectre CSS](https://picturepan2.github.io/spectre/getting-started.html#introduction), but you can use any CSS framework you like. Spectre is small (~10KB) but fully featured and easy to use. Spectre does not use JavaScript, which makes it [AMP-compatible](https://www.ampproject.org/learn/overview/) - a big plus for content-driven sites and apps.

NEXT: Go to [Tutorial 3](/t3/).