## Tutorial 3: Learn serverless websites with dynamic databinding.

A webapp is just a dynamic website. This tutorial helps you understand an example of a serverless website. Whether you plan to build a webapp or not, this tutorial is a good foundation. 

In this tutorial we cover these key concepts: appshell, includes, routes, custom tags, link lists, content lists and serverless email. This includes dynamic databinding, where the browser ('client') uses data from a JSON response to dynamically render content _client-side_.

We assume that you have already installed the example `website` project as described [here](/t2/); generated with `mbake -s` and running on S3. 

### Steps

1. The example website uses an _appshell_ for the parts of a website that are common to all pages. To understand how this works using Pug, inspect `/home/about/index.pug` and `/home/careers/index.pug`. These Pug files show how the parts of the HTML they have in common are pulled from central places. Both pages use or 'extend' the _template_ `/layout/layout.pug`. Open this template file, and see that it has 'blocks' named `'head2'`, `'top'`, and `'main'`. The Pug pages that extend this template define how to replace (or 'fill') these blocks. For example,`/home/about/index.pug` defines that the `'head2'` block consists of a page-specific `'title'` tag.

 2. The website also makes use of Pug _include_. Looking at `/home/about/index.pug` you see that the `'top'` block includes _fragment_ `/layout/nav.pug` for the top menu navigation. We re-use `nav.pug` in `/home/careers/index.pug` and in other pages. Now inspect `/home/about/index.html`. This is the complete HTML which mbake has collated together from template, fragments and dat.yaml. Since S3 returns the 'default' page `index.html` when the browser requests `/home/about/`, this is what the end user sees. 

3. Application routes are defined with `a href` tags. Inspect `/layout/nav.pug` for examples. When a user clicks on a link, the URL in the browser changes and the respective content, such as `/home/about/index.html` is returned. Users can bookmark individual URLs. The browser maintains a navigation history so that using its 'Back' button yields the expected result.

4. We use [Riot.js](https://riot.js.org/) for custom tags. We use it when we need a new tag or want to hide functions and vars. To learn how Riot tags are written and used in Pug, inspect `/riotFirst/tags/first-tag.pug`. It looks something like this:

        first-tag
            p Dynamic Data:
            p { num }

            script.
                doSomething(arg) {
                    console.log('arg: ', arg)
                    this.update({num: arg})
                }

    When `'doSomething()'` gets called, it updates the `{num}`.

    You would run `'mbake -t .'` to generate a `first-tag.js` file to include in your page. mbake looks for files that end in `'-tag.pug'`.

    `/riotFirst/index.pug` uses this tag and looks like this:

        head
            title #{title}
        body
            //- include Riot
            script(src='//cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/riot@3.11.2/riot.min.js')
            //- include the tag script
            script(src='tags/first-tag.min.js')
            p
            div
                //- use the tag
                first-tag
            script.
                var firstTag = riot.mount('first-tag')[0] // get the tag
                firstTag.doSomething(42) // call the logic

    You can see it working by going to `/riotFirst/` in the browser.

5. We can render a list of links from a `list.json`. Navigate to the 'News' menu item. Inspect `/news/index.pug`. We use _Axios_ to load the JSON and our custom riot tag `table-tag` to dynamically render the list of links in the browser. Inspect `/news/tag/table-tag.pug` and note the use of Pug `each={items}` with JavaScript to iterate through the items in `list.json`. You use `'mbake -t .'` to generate `table-tag.js`. It is incorporated in `/news/index.pug`. There's no need to write JSON by hand, as you can process a `list.csv` to `list.json` with `'mbake -j .'`. This is a great way to build lists that change over time.

6. For more elaborate situations, such as with a blog or lists of content pages, we can generate a list from items placed in subfolders. Navigate to the 'Team' menu item. Inspect `/team/index.pug`. We use our custom `card-tag` to render a card for each team member, with the data necessary obtained from `/team/items.json`. We generated this JSON with `'mbake -i .'`. This command loops through all the subfolders and aggregates the list of metadata (name and title) from `dat.yaml` in each subfolder. It adds a URL to the JSON items, with the root path prefix obtained from `data_i.yaml`. This is a great way to add or remove items from a website, where all necessary resources are located in a single folder for the item. You can generate an example blog app with `mbake -b`.

7. Finally, we use [EmailJS](http://www.emailjs.com/) to send email from the `/contact` page without any server code.

Another feature of mbake allows you to generate an _AMP_ version of a website that has no custom JavaScript. More about this in another upcoming tutorial.

__Summary__: in this tutorial, you've learned about appshell, includes, routes, custom tags, link lists, content lists and serverless email, along with dynamic data binding. In the [next tutorial](/t4/), we cover a _serverless CRUD webapp_.

NEXT: Go to [Tutorial 4](/t4/).

