
# Tutorial 4: CRUD

### Intro to datatables and gridforms

....

CRUD stands for create-read-update-delete. 

In this tutorial, you will learn how to create your own Firestore  database, insert data and add authentication to the app. If you are a web designer, you probably won't need to do this tutorial. If you are a programmer or web developer, we do recommend it.

Firestore  database is part of the Google Firestore offering. Similar to AWS Cognito, Firestore includes pure client-side user authentication. Firestore can be used from the browser via JavaScript; no custom serverside code is needed. This is key to be able to develop faster.

Firestore is free for up to 50,000 reads and 20,000 writes per day. See more details [here](https://firebase.google.com/docs/Firestore /quotas). At the time of writing, Firestore  is a beta version, but Gmail also was beta for a very long time, without major issues. Firestore  has a clean and mature API that is much improved from a previous version of Firebase. 

## Steps

We assume you have completed [Tutorial 1](/t1/), [Tutorial 2](/t2/) and [Tutorial 3](/t3/).

1. Using the AWS S3 browser, create a bucket _in the same region_ as you used in [Tutorial 1](/t1/). Name the bucket `'wgehner-crud'` (replace `'wgehner'` with your name or something else unique). Configure the bucket for static website hosting and apply the access policy analog to the 'firo' project ([Step 3](/t1/#configure) in Tutorial 1). Copy the Endpoint URL. The new bucket should appear as a new _project root_ folder in your mapped drive (e.g. as `W:\wgehner-crud`). Extract the CRUD sample project to your computer with `'mbake -c'` and copy the project files (inside of `/crud`) into the project root. In a browser, open the Endpoint URL. You should see the CRUD Template app served by S3. 

2. Create a Google account if you don't already have one. Log into <https://console.firebase.google.com>. Create a project named `test-crud`. Under the left menu 'Develop - Database', create a Firestore  app in test mode.
On the Project Overview, click the `</>` button near 'Add an app to get started' to open a popup. In your mapped project `/layoutOff/crud.pug`, overwrite the values for apiKey, authDomain and projectId with the values shown in the Firestore popup and save. (`/layoutOff/layout.pug` has `include crud.pug`.). Run `'mbake .'` from the project root. In a browser, refresh the Endpoint URL. 

3. In the browser, navigate to the 'CRUD' screen, overtype 'more data' with a custom string and click 'Add data'. Back in the Firestore Console, in 'Develop - Database', you should see the inserted data as first item in 'table_one'. Repeat to insert a second item.

4. Next inspect `/screen/members/modA.pug`. In the `script.` section look for the code that inserts data on button click. You will see something like this:

		let newPK = db.collection('table_one').doc() // make PK
		newPK.set(newRow) // insert

	The JavaScript API of Firestore  is intuitive and easy to use.

5. We will now secure the database. In the Firestore Console, on the Rules tab in 'Develop - Database', replace  
	`allow: read, write;`  
	with  
	`allow read, write: if request.auth.token.email_verified == true ;`  
	Publish the change. Only logged in users who have been verified by email can now read from or write to the database. Since you are currently not logged in, 'Add data' on the 'CRUD' screen should now fail.

6. We will now configure and test a sign-in method. In the Firestore Console, in 'Develop - Authentication', click on 'Set up sign-in method'. Enable Email/Password sign-up and save. In the CRUD Theme app, navigate to the multi-purpose 'Auth' screen (/screen/auth/). Enter your email and a password and click the 'Sign Up' button. The new user should appear in the Firestore Authentication list of Users.

7. Check your email and click on the link you received (The email can be customized on the Firestore Authentication Templates tab). Return to the app Auth screen (/screen/auth/) and click the 'Sign In' button. If the login succeeded, 'Add data' on the 'CRUD' screen should now succeed, and you should see the added data in the Firestore database console.

To follow our best practices, you can find a Riot tag version of the CRUD screen under the 'Tag' menu item. mbake creates an obfuscated .min.js version of the tag script that can include database info. In any case, the added user authentication keeps unauthorized users from accessing the database.

__Summary:__ You learnt how to create your own Firestore  database, insert data and add authentication to the app.
Firestore  replaces MongoDB, but also ORM, REST, DevOps, Security, Failover, etc. Instead of learning all of these, now you only need to learn how to use Firestore . That should create a huge savings in your development and operations budget.

__NEXT STEPS:__ You can try out more Template projects (type `mbake`). You can also setup a META build server. META has a watcher that triggers 'mbake' when you save a file to a mapped drive. You can become 10X more productive by adopting the Metabase approach. 

Definitely look at:

- <a href='https://github.com/metabake/_mBake/tree/master/awesomeReference' target='_blank'>Awesome list of Metabake resources</a>

- [Advanced reference and examples](https://github.com/metabake/Meta/tree/master/advancedReference)

- <https://git.metabake.org>.

## PS: A tip on fetching data

The Firestore  API is loaded from the HTML head tag.
When doing a fetch, you also want to do it in HTML head where possible, so that data is loaded in parallel with the UI. When data is returned, the URI should be ready to bind - so it's not sequential, and users don't have to wait.

