# Terms of Use

MetaBake&trade; (“MetaBake” “we” “us” or “our”) operates a website located at mbake.org (the “website”) from which users can gather information concerning news and services provided by MetaBake.

MetaBake&trade; maintains this site (the “website”) for your personal entertainment, information, education, and communication. Please feel free to browse the website. You may download material displayed on the website for non-commercial, personal use only provided you also retain all copyright and other proprietary notices contained on the materials. You may not, however, distribute, modify, transmit, reuse, re-post, or use the content of the website for public or commercial purposes, including the text, images, audio, and video without MetaBake’ written permission. Your access to and use of the website is also subject to the following Terms of Use (“Terms of Use”) and all applicable laws. By accessing and browsing the website, you accept, without limitation or qualification, the Terms of Use and acknowledge that any other agreements between you and MetaBake&trade; are superseded and of no force or effect.

Terms of Use

1. You should assume that everything you see or read on the website is copyrighted unless otherwise noted and may not be used except as provided in these Terms of Use or in the text on the website without the written permission of MetaBake.
1. Any unsolicited communication or material you transmit to the website by electronic mail or otherwise, including any data, questions, comments, suggestions, or the like is, and will be treated as, non-confidential and non-proprietary. MetaBake&trade; or its affiliates may use anything you transmit or post for any purpose, including, but not limited to, reproduction, disclosure, transmission, publication, broadcast and posting. Furthermore, MetaBake&trade; shall be free to use any ideas, concepts, know-how, or techniques contained in any communication you send to the website for any purpose whatsoever including, but not limited to, developing, creating and marketing products using such information.
1. Images of people or places displayed on the website are either and property of, or used with permission by MetaBake&trade;. The use of these images by you, or anyone else authorized by you, is prohibited unless specifically permitted by these Terms of Use or specific permission provided elsewhere on the website. Any unauthorized use of the images may violate copyright laws, trademark laws, the laws of privacy and publicity, and communications regulations and statutes.
1. The trademarks, logos, and service marks (collectively called “Trademarks”) displayed on the website, including “MetaBake,” and “mbake” are registered Trademarks of MetaBake&trade;. Nothing contained on the website should be construed as granting, by implication, estoppel, or otherwise, any license or right to use any Trademark displayed on the website without written permission of MetaBake&trade; or such third party that may own the Trademarks displayed on the website. Your misuse of the Trademarks displayed on the website, or any other content on the website, except as provided in these Terms of Use, is strictly prohibited.
1. MetaBake&trade; may at any time revise these Terms of Use by updating this posting. You are bound by any such revisions and should therefore periodically visit this page to review the then current Terms of Use to which you are bound.