# S3

First time you setup to host a webapp on S3 takes about an hour. After you do a few, it is
10 minutes.

1. Fastest way is to create a Vulr's S3 object storage and use one of the tools like this to mount:
ExpanDrive, Mountainduck.io, s3fs-fuse and my fave https://github.com/kahing/goofys, but there are plenty of others.

If you want to use AWS instead of one of the easier object stores, then:

- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/HostingWebsiteOnS3Setup.html

- Add Bucket Policy in Permissions

		{
			"Version":"2012-10-17",
			"Statement":[{
				"Sid":"PublicReadGetObject",
					"Effect":"Allow",
				"Principal": "*",
					"Action":["s3:GetObject"],
					"Resource":["arn:aws:s3:::YOUR-BUCKET-NAME/*"
					 ]
				}]
		}



2. Now that you mounted a the storage, you can create an index.html or more.
Now use a node.js static server such as mbake (https://www.npmjs.com/package/mbake), or if you want old school (and more limited headers) you can use something like caddyserver.

3. Your CDN (eg. CDN77) should point to the http server above ( and your DNS should point to your CDN ).


Exabyte

World's shortest (but complete, hands on) advanced front end workshop (train the trainer):

1 S3 Vultr. Mount. CDN, Min Sass ( Instuctor needs S3 Vultr and CDN77 account ). Use Docsify Scsss. Optional DNS

Time 2 hours

2 SSR first. w/ SQL for JAMstack - Generator pre-processing (pug) for 3 Items data and SEO, yaml farming

2 hour lab

1 hour break

3 CRUD detial transactions  item w/ FLUX pattern (using defEventFlux) w/ custom elements

1 hours

4 SPA component Apps w/ Electron for Cross platform. Yes you want to know it

2 hours

